# cljs-start

A [lein template][1] for creating [ClojureScript][2] lib with
batteries included.

## Introduction

Most of the ClojureScript (CLJS) newcomers have some difficulties in
setting up and configure a complete environment from which to
seriously start developing with this very powerful programming
language for the browser.

Due to this difficulties most front-end programmers just give up and
prefer to go back to JavaScript (JS) or others programming language
compiling down to JS as well, but requiring less efforts in setting up
a productive programming environment (e.g. [CoffeScript][3]).

`cljs-start` intends to offer to the serious newcomers a more direct
path to start hacking with CLJS for building state of the art libs.

## Quick start guide

The only `cljs-start` installation requirements are
[Java][4] and [Leiningen][5].

### Requirement installation

#### Installing Java

Depending on your machine you could have Java already installed on
it. CLJS requires a Java Development Kit (JDK) version 6.0 or
later. If you need to install theb JDK or to upgrade it, just follow
the instruction for your operating system available on the
[main java website][6].

#### Installing Leiningen

After having installed Java you need to install [Leiningen][5]. The
available [installation guide][7] is very easy to be followed:

1. Make sure you have a Java JDK version 6 or later;
2. [Download the script][8];
3. Place it on your `$PATH` (cf. `~/bin` is a good choice if it is on your `path`.);
4. Set the script to be executable. (i.e. `chmod 755 ~/bin/lein`);

If you work on Windows, follow this [instruction][9]

You're now ready to start creating the next wonderful CLJS lib with
 `cljs-start`.

### Creating a new CLJS lib project

The creation of a new CLJS lib project is damn simple with
`cljs-start`:

### Create the project

Open a terminal window and cd in your development directory. I
personally use the `~/dev` as my development directory.

Then just call the `lein` command to create a new project
(e.g. `wonderful-lib`)

```bash
cd ~/dev
lein new cljs-start wonderful-lib
Generating fresh 'lein new' cljs-start project.
```

> NOTE 1: Don't use any blank in the name of the project.

### Compile the project

The compilation of the newly created project is even simpler. You just
need to `cd` in the directory of the newly created project and issue
the `lein compile` command.

> NOTE 2: In the wild the main `lein` commands are named `tasks`.

```bash
cd wonderful-lib
lein compile
Compiling ClojureScript.
Compiling "dev-resources/public/js/advanced.js" from ["src/cljs" "test/cljs"]...
WARNING: set-print-fn! already refers to: cljs.core/set-print-fn! being replaced by: cemerick.cljs.test/set-print-fn! at line 252 /Users/mimmo/Developer/wonderful-lib/target/cljsbuild-compiler-0/cemerick/cljs/test.cljs
Successfully compiled "dev-resources/public/js/advanced.js" in 16.446233 seconds.
Compiling "dev-resources/public/js/simple.js" from ["src/cljs" "test/cljs"]...
WARNING: set-print-fn! already refers to: cljs.core/set-print-fn! being replaced by: cemerick.cljs.test/set-print-fn! at line 252 /Users/mimmo/Developer/wonderful-lib/target/cljsbuild-compiler-1/cemerick/cljs/test.cljs
Successfully compiled "dev-resources/public/js/simple.js" in 5.685367 seconds.
Compiling "dev-resources/public/js/wonderful-lib.js" from ["src/cljs" "test/cljs" "dev-resources/tools/repl"]...
WARNING: set-print-fn! already refers to: cljs.core/set-print-fn! being replaced by: cemerick.cljs.test/set-print-fn! at line 252 /Users/mimmo/Developer/wonderful-lib/target/cljsbuild-compiler-2/cemerick/cljs/test.cljs
Successfully compiled "dev-resources/public/js/wonderful-lib.js" in 3.634899 seconds.
Compiling "dev-resources/public/js/deploy.js" from ["src/cljs"]...
Successfully compiled "dev-resources/public/js/deploy.js" in 2.730516 seconds.
```

Don't worry at all about the received WARNINGS. They depend of the
fact the CLJS release included in `cljs-start` is pretty recent
(i.e. r1978, actually the latest available at the time of this
writing) and it already defined the `set-print-fn!` function. One of
the included lib in the project, [clojurescript.test][10] redefines
the same function for being able to handle older CLJS releases in
which that function is not defined.

At you see the compilation process takes times. This is because the
the project generated by `cljs-start` included a lot of things.

* for different builds
*


You will see
2. Build the project

```bash
cd
```
efforts of simplifying the

CLJS is a significant subset of the Clojure (CLJ) programming language
that compiles down to the JavaScript Virtual Machine (JSVM) while CLJ
compiles down to the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
